Uploading images to cloudinary from django application (#1877)
section-engineering-education/engineering-education: articles/uploading-images-to-cloudinary-from-django-application/index.md

> Sometimes while working on applications that require the use of images, a simple process like uploading images to a server can become difficult.
> If you deploy your Django to platform like heroku, you can't save image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes while working on applications that require the use of images, a simple process like uploading images to a server can become difficult. If you deploy your Django to a platform like Heroku, you can't save images.
```

> In this tutorial, we look at how to save images in Django using CLoudinary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we learn about how to save images in Django using Cloudinary.
```

> Cloudinary is an end-to-end image- and video-management solution for websites and mobile apps, covering everything from image and video uploads, storage, manipulations, optimizations to delivery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cloudinary is an end-to-end image and video management solution for websites and mobile apps. It covers everything from image and video uploads, storage, manipulations, and optimizations to delivery.
```

> Cloudinary is an end-to-end image- and video-management solution for websites and mobile apps, covering everything from image and video uploads, storage, manipulations, optimizations to delivery.

Reviewer: In addition to this, please also add what other solutions are present, how it is better than others, what is the current method used, and if possible give advantages of using this.

In overall, you will have to give more details in the introductory paragraph and the conclusion.

### Prerequisites

> To follow along with this tutorial, you need Python3 installed on your machine.

Reviewer: Add a link for installation of python 3 (That would help the beginners)

> 

Reviewer: Add a `Table of contents` section

> ### Creating and setting up a new Django project

Reviewer: It would be great, if you could specify an objective of what this tutorial is going to be about or what are you going to build

> Let's start by creating a new virtual environment

Reviewer: Add `.` at the end of line

> Let's start by creating a new virtual environment

Reviewer: Explain the need for creation of virtual environment in 1 - 2 lines. Though this is out of the scope of article, this would help the beginners.

```bash
$ python -m virtualenv env

```

> Activate virtual environment

Reviewer: Add `.` at end of line.

Do this wherever necessary.

```bash
$ source virtual/bin/activate

```

Install Django

```bash
$ pip install django

```

> Create new Django project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new Django project.
```

```bash
$ django-admin startproject photoapp

```

Create Django app

```bash
$ django-admin startapp photos

```

> Lets add our app to the list of installed apps. Navigate to the "photoapp" directory and edit the settings.py file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's add our app to the list of installed apps. Navigate to the `photoapp` directory and edit the `settings.py` file.
```

Reviewer: Always enclose unique words or variables or filenames within ` `` ` to highlight them

```python
INSTALLED_APPS = [

    'django.contrib.admin',
    
    'django.contrib.auth',
    
    'django.contrib.contenttypes',
    
    'django.contrib.sessions',
    
    'django.contrib.messages',
    
    'django.contrib.staticfiles',
    
    'photos',
    ]
```

### Setting up Cloudinary

> Now lets head over to [cloudinary](https://cloudinary.com/) website to create an account.
> Click on the Sign Up button and fill in your details to create an account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let's head over to the [Cloudinary](https://cloudinary.com/) website to create an account.

Click on the `Sign Up` button and fill in your details to create an account.
```

### Installation

> Install the cloudinary module in our project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install the Cloudinary module in our project
```

```bash
$ pip install cloudinary

```

> Next thing is to add Cloudinary to the list of installed apps in settings.py

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next thing is to add Cloudinary to the list of installed apps in `settings.py`.
```

```python
INSTALLED_APPS = [

    'django.contrib.admin',
    
    'django.contrib.auth',
    
    'django.contrib.contenttypes',
    
    'django.contrib.sessions',
    
    'django.contrib.messages',
    
    'django.contrib.staticfiles',
    
    'photos',
    'cloudinary'
    ]
```

> We will also need to include Cloudinary's python classes in settings.py

Reviewer: Enclose `settings.py` within ` `` `. And, add a `.` at the end of line.

Make these changes wherever necessary.

```python
    import cloudinary
    import cloudinary.uploader
    import cloudinary.api
```

### Configuration

> To use the Cloudinary Django library, we have to configure at least our cloud_name, api_key and api_secret .
> we can find our account-specific configuration credentials in the Dashboard page of the account console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the Cloudinary Django library, we have to configure at least our `cloud_name`, `api_key` and `api_secret`. We can find our account-specific configuration credentials in the Dashboard page of the account console.
```

> ![Cloudinary Dashboard](/engineering-education/uploading-images-to-cloudinary-from-django-application/dash.png)

Reviewer: Add image source (if not yours), and add an image footer describing about the image. Something like this:

*Cloudinary dashboard page*

```python
cloudinary.config( 
  cloud_name = "your_cloud_name", 
  api_key = "Your_api_key", 
  api_secret = "Your_api_secret" 
)
```

### Creating a model

> In the “photos” directory, edit the models.py file and add the following lines of code to it.

Reviewer: Enclose `photos` and `models.py` within ` `` `

```python
    from django.db import models
    from cloudinary.models import CloudinaryField

    class photos(models.Model):
        Tittle = models.CharField(max_length=100)

>         image = CloudinaryField('image')

Reviewer: Add code comments

```

Now let's migrate our model to the database by running the commands bellow

```bash
# migrating the app and database changes
$ python manage.py makemigrations

# final migrations
$ python manage.py migrate
```

Then we create a superuser by running the command below

```bash
 $ python manage.py createsuperuser 
 
 ```

> Now let's register the photos model in the admin.py file so we can modify it in the Django admin section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's register the model of photos in the `admin.py` file, so we can modify it in the Django admin section.
```

```python
from django.contrib import admin
from .models import photos

admin.site.register(photos)

> 

Reviewer: Explain what is being done here

```

Let's now login to the admin page.

> To login to the admin section, go to this link [localhost:8000/admin](localhost:800/admin) and login with our just created superuser details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To login to the admin section, go to this link [localhost:8000/admin](localhost:8000/admin) and login with our just created superuser details.
```

![Django Admin](/engineering-education/uploading-images-to-cloudinary-from-django-application/admin.png)

> ![](/engineering-education/uploading-images-to-cloudinary-from-django-application/django-admin.png)

Reviewer: It is always advised to add an image alternative.

And, add image source and footer as mentioned previously.

Now, let's add an image in the photos category to test if it uploads to cloudinary.

> Click on pictures, then click "Add Photo" to add an image

Reviewer: Replace ` "" ` with ` `` `

![](/engineering-education/uploading-images-to-cloudinary-from-django-application/add-photo.png)

![](/engineering-education/uploading-images-to-cloudinary-from-django-application/photo-added.png)

To confirm if the image was uploaded successfully, click on the just added image, clik on the link there.

We can also confirm by going tp the "media library" section on our cloudinary account.

### Creating View

> Now let's create a view to view the image. Add the following code to your views.py file

Reviewer: Enclose within ` `` `

```python
from django.shortcuts import render

def index(request):
    return render(request, 'index.html')
```

> Let's create our "templates" folder. Inside the folder, create a index.html file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's create our `templates` folder. Inside the folder, create an `index.html` file.
```

photos/templates/index.html

> Before adding our html code, let's quickly create a new url for newly created view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before adding our HTML code, let's quickly create a new URL for the newly created view.
```

Add the following code to urls.py file

```python
from django.contrib import admin
from django.urls import path
from photos import views

urlpatterns = [
    path('admin/', admin.site.urls),
    path('', views.index, name='index'),

> ]

Reviewer: Add code comments

```

Let's also import our photos model in the views.py file

we also need to add context to render, so we can use image in our template.

```python
from django.shortcuts import render
from .models import photos

def index(request):
    photo = photos.objects.all()
    ctx = {'photo':photo}

>     return render(request, 'index.html', ctx)

Reviewer: Add comments

    
```

Now let's work on our html template to display the image

Open the index.html file we created earlier and paste the following code.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <title>Photoapp</title>
</head>
<body>
    <h2>Cloudinary Fish</h2>
    {% for pic in photo %}
    <h2>{{pic.Tittle}}</h2>
        <img src="{{pic.image.url}}" alt="fish">
    {% endfor %}
</body>
</html>

```

![](/engineering-education/uploading-images-to-cloudinary-from-django-application/fish-local.png)

### Conclusion
We've seen how we can add upload images to cloudinary from our Django app. For further learning on image/video upload and transformation using cloudinary. Check out the link below

> 

Reviewer: Add a GitHub repository link containing full codes

> 

Reviewer: Add key takeaways from this article, as bulleted points
